Getting Started with the LoRaWAN Kit
====================================

Installation
------------

1. Plug the SODAQ ONE board into the USB port of the computer.
2. Open the "DemoApp" folder.
3. Double-click the "DemoApp" file to open in Arduino.
4. Select the "Sketch->Include Library->Manage Libraries..." menu item.
5. Enter "LSM303" in the search field and then select and install the "LSM303 by Pololu" library.
6. After installation, click close.
7. Select the "File->Preferences" menu item.
8. Add "http://downloads.sodaq.net/test/package_sodaq_index.json" to the "Additional Board Manager URLs" field and click "OK".
9. Select the "Tools->Board->Boards Manager..." menu item.
10. Enter "SODAQ" in the search field and then select and install the SODAQ SAMD Boards item.
11. After installation, click close.
12. Select the "Tools->Board->SODAQ ONE with ONEBase SPI" menu item
13. Select the "Tools->Ports->SODAQ ExpLoRa" menu item.
14. Click the magnifying glass icon at the top right labelled "Serial Monitor".
15. In the window that opens, change the "No line ending" drop down menu to "Both NL & CR".
16. In the text field at the top of the window, type "sys get ver" and press return.
17. If "RN2903AU 0.9.7rc7 Aug 11 2016 15:07:56" appears, then rejoice in having connected to the LoRa modem! If not, try again, check the steps so far, or seek help.


Connect to LoRaWAN
------------------

18. Now type "sys get hweui" and press return. Note the string of digits that appear.
19. In the DemoApp window, find the line that starts with "uint8_t DevEUI[8]", below the "OTAA" heading.
20. Change the series of "0x00" to the pairs of digits that appeared in the serial monitor. For example, if when you issued "sys get hweui" it returned "0004A30B001A2C31", then change the DevEUI to look like this:
* uint8_t DevEUI[8] = { 0x00, 0x04, 0xA3, 0x0B, 0x00, 0x1A, 0x2C, 0x31 };
21. Save your changes and then click the "tick" button at the top left of the DemoApp window.
Some red and white text output should appear in the black section at the bottom of the window.
* If *Done compiling* appears in the green section above the black section, move to the next step.
* If *Done compiling* does not appear, double check each of the steps so far or seek some help.
22. Click the "arrow" button next to the "tick" button to program your changes to the SODAQ One board. After about 15 seconds "Done uploading" should appear in the green section. If not, double check the connections or seek help.
23. Take a look at the Serial Monitor. If "OTAA connection successful!" appears, then congratulations, you've just connected a new node to the LoRaWAN! If not, double check the steps so far or seek help.

The One board will automatically start sending messages every 10 minutes. Press the small button in the centre of the top board to skip the 10 minute delay.

Verify transmission to Internet
-------------------------------

24. Open the Ubidots website in a browser and use the username and password to login:
* https://app.ubidots.com/accounts/signin/
* Username: _NewcastleIoTPioneers_
* Password: _m(pDTUGVAg48_
25. Click the "Devices" link near the centre top.
26. If a device appears named "one_XXXXXX" where XXXXXX matches the last 6 characters in the DevEUI you set earlier, then rejoice in having transmitted your first LoRaWAN message! If not, try refreshing the website, or seek some help.
27. Click on your device to see the data that was transmitted. The 10 variables include 9 data variables generated by the SODAQ One board and 1 more containing all the metadata produced by the LoRaWAN system. For reference, they are:
* data1 - battery voltage in millivolts
* data2 - compass heading in degrees
* data3 - not assigned
* data4 - acceleration in the left right board direction.
* data5 - acceleration in the top bottom board direction.
* data6 - acceleration in the up down board direction. Should be high due to gravity.
* message - internal timestamp. Also contains "Context" data on the device ID, received signal strength indicator, signal to noise ratio and other radio transmission properties.

28. These raw values are a little hard to work with, so let's create some friendlier variables. Click the "Add Variable" box at the end of the variables and select "Derived".
29. Select your device and then select the "data6" variable.
30. In the edit box that appears, type "/16000" to divide data6 by 16000.
31. Click save and then name the new variable "Acceleration". Note it can take a while for the variable to be saved. This should give you the One's acceleration in the vertical direction. If the board is sitting flat, this should be about 1g due to gravity.


Create a Dashboard
------------------

32. Time to put this LoRaWAN data to use. Click the "Dashboards" link near the centre top of the Ubidots website.
33. Click the Dashboards icon near the top left of the window.
34. Click the small orange "+" icon to create a new Dashboard.
35. Give your new Dashboard a name, click the "tick" button, and then click the Dashboard name to open your new Dashboard.
36. Let's create your first widget. Click the big orange "+" icon to add a widget.
37. Try a "Chart" first. Click "Chart" and then "Line chart".
38. Click the orange "+" to add a variable. Find your device in the Widget creation dialog that appears and click it.
39. Click "data2" (compass heading) and then "Add Variable".
40. Click "Finish" and watch your data come alive.
41. Let's try a Gauge next. Click the big orange "+" icon to add another widget, select "Indicator" and then "Gauge".
42. Select your device and then select "data1" (battery voltage).
43. Set the min value to 3000 and the max value to 5000 and click "Finish".
44. What about a map? Try adding a map widget. Use the "satellites" variable and the lat/lng context data will be automatically picked. Note it can take a while to get a GPS fix.
45. Check out the "One Example" for some other ideas.


Get Creative
------------

46. Think about some of the possibilities:
* What could this data be used for?
* Are there any other sensors (eg. moisture, proximity, sound) that might be useful?
* Is there an Internet service (eg. email, SMS, Twitter, IFTTT) that could be triggered via an event?
* What about untethering the board from the computer and running off a battery?


47. Start experimenting. Keep these guidelines in mind:
* All the data in Ubidots is visible to everyone in the workshop. That means you can add data from other people's things to your dashboard!
* That also means you must be careful not to modify dashboards or devices you did not create, or you risk ruining someone else's work.
* To change the data sent by the One, go back to Arduino and modify the code.
* Note that regardless of the data you send, it must fit the existing 6 data value pattern. The first three data values are unsigned integers and the last three are signed integers. Seek help if you'd like to use the 12 bytes in some other way.
* You're not restricted to Ubidots. If there's another service you'd like to send the data to, either use Ubidots events to push it there, or seek help to redirect the LoraWAN backend.
